hey how's it going Dave 2d here this
laptop here holds the current title of
the world's thinnest laptop and that is
a title that gets transferred between
different companies different product
lines because some company will make a
really thin laptop it's the world's
thinnest and then a few months later
some company will shave off a millimeter
here millimeter there and just it
bounces around between the different
brands as to who has the world's
thinnest at that time right now the Acer
Swift 7 has the thinnest title and it's
a 9 millimeter thick laptop actually a
little bit less than that if you put it
into perspective there are smartphones
that are thicker than this like it's a
very thin device the build quality is
quite good it's obviously a form factor
that is going to inherently be more
difficult to keep structural integrity
because it's so thin but they've done a
really good job with it it's milled
aluminum and it's made well now the
target demographic for a product like
this isn't huge right not everyone's
gonna be buying something super thin
just for the sake of buying something
thin you got to really need or really
want something that looks like this and
I mean there's some compromises we'll
get to those in a little bit but there's
a lot of good stuff going on here as
well so the screen is a 14 inch 1080p
touch panel it's bright with vibrant
colors great for media consumption it's
bigger so instead of the 13.3 inch
screen that we often see in most
ultrabooks it is a touch bigger but
visually it's not a huge difference the
keyboard is also quite good I expected
this keyboard to be not great because
it's such a thin device traditionally
really thin laptops have kind of
mediocre keyboards this one's pretty
good my one complaint is the layout
there's just a few keys that feel out of
place for example the Delete and
backspace key they're really close
together and I was making a lot of
mistakes when I first started using this
keyboard same with the page up and page
down keys they're just right by the
arrow keys it's just a real tight
cluster of stuff that you can hit by
accident and it's a very good and
comfortable keyboard but that layout
takes a while to get used to there's
also a fingerprint sensor on the side I
usually like fingerprint sensors on
Windows devices I can't even think of
one that I haven't liked this one for
whatever reason I'm just getting a lot
of missed reads and errors like I wasn't
able to log in consistently with my
finger probably one out of every two or
three tries at best so it could be a
software thing I hope it's not a
hardware thing but this particular
sensor on this review unit wasn't
great the components on the inside are
decent there's nothing in here that's
particularly high-powered it's geared
more towards energy efficiency and just
low energy consumption there's also a
SIM card in here for constant 4G LTE
access it even has an e SIM option the
batter in here is also good I'm getting
around eight hours of use with the
screen at 250 nits and it's charged via
us PC so the performance on this device
is okay it's actually powered by cable a
qui processor so that's the seventh gen
stuff it's fanless and it'll handle any
kind of light computer tasks like
browsing email media consumption stuff
like that but don't expect any kind of
heavy lifting now there are some
compromises when it comes to making thin
and light devices like this particularly
something as thin as this so stuff like
ports there's only two USB ports they
don't support Thunderbolt 3 and there's
no use ba ports in terms of the speakers
they're located on the bottom they don't
sound particularly great they don't get
particularly loud they're I mean they're
ultra book speakers when you compare
them someone like the MacBook with
12-inch MacBook similar in size well
similar ish they're both really thin but
the 12-inch MacBook speakers just blow
these out of the water then you have
stuff like the webcam which is located
at the bottom of the screen on the bezel
it's something that we see in a lot of
thin and light devices but that's just
one of the minor compromises you have to
make when it comes to stuff like this
there are some bigger ones though some
bigger compromises them in my opinion
are almost deal-breakers for this
particular device the big one for me is
the trackpad this is a trackpad that
does not have any moving parts so the
bun mechanic or rather the click
mechanic is not even a click it's a tap
so I've been using this device for a
little bit over a week and I've been
using the trackpad frequently I can't
get used to it it's something that I
feel like if you're used to any kind of
tactile response with your trackpad you
will find it very difficult to use this
it's not so much the tactility like
that's annoying that it's not there but
it's the imprecision so if you want to
do drag and drop it's very difficult to
do it on this track pattern I often find
that I'm getting miss clicks or just
unregistered clicks because of the
mechanism and I think this is a result
or this reason why this trackpad is like
this is because this laptop is so thin I
feel like they couldn't put that
mechanism of a click or of a cantilever
or any kind of like depression device
into this super thin form factor and
like to me that's not worth it like if
you're gonna do this if you're gonna
build a device like this that cost this
kind of money this this is one of the
pillars of use right this is a very very
important part of any kind of laptop
experience and if this is no good the
trackpad
the whole experience feels a little bit
shaded and that leads me to my second
thing because this thing is so thin the
price premium this product is huge this
starts at $1700 that is a lot of money
and when you look at the mark and you
kind of see what else is out there in
this kind of form factor there are other
devices out there like the razor blade
stuff the XPS 13 the LG Graham they're
very similar in overall experience to
something like this not as thin but it's
still very very portable so you're
paying a pretty big premium on this just
because of the ultra thin form factor
and it's cool that acer or other
companies out there are kind of just in
that pursuit of thinness it's cool but
when you step back for a second and kind
of look at the overall like reason is
this really that useful like is there
someone out there that really needs
something so thin that they can you know
what what's what's the major benefit of
something that is so thin compared to
something that's a little bit thicker
like fractionally thicker but doesn't
have the compromises like an extremely
high price tag and a trackpad
that does not click like Batson this
feels weird like really really weird
okay
overall thoughts on this device I love
the fact that acer is trying something
like this thin is cool and maybe in the
future we'll have the tech to kind of
make everything work with clickable
trackpads and better performance and all
that stuff in ultra thin devices like
this but right now I really feel like
that pursuit of thinness
needs to chill out for a second because
now we're getting to the point of
compromise product and I just don't
recommend this thing for most people
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs we liked it subs you loved it see
you guys next time